README.md, before:

# 📰 News Analyzer with Dual LLM Validation

A news analysis pipeline that uses **OpenAI GPT-4o-mini** for primary analysis and **OpenRouter Nemotron** for cross-validation. Features a ChatGPT-style Streamlit UI with clickable articles.

---

## 👤 Author

**Vivek**  
🌐 Portfolio: [cv.vivekmind.com](https://cv.vivekmind.com)  
📂 GitHub: [github.com/Lnxtanx](https://github.com/Lnxtanx)

---

## ✨ Features

- **Dual LLM Pipeline**: OpenAI analyzes → OpenRouter/Nemotron validates
- **ChatGPT-Style UI**: Modern dark theme with interactive chat
- **Clickable Articles**: View source articles in new tab
- **Sentiment Analysis**: Positive/Negative/Neutral classification
- **Cross-validation**: Second LLM catches incorrect analysis
- **Rich Reports**: JSON + Markdown output formats

## 🔧 LLM Architecture

| Role | Provider | Model | Purpose |
|------|----------|-------|---------|
| **LLM#1 (Analyzer)** | OpenAI | `gpt-4o-mini` | Primary analysis - extracts gist, sentiment, tone |
| **LLM#2 (Validator)** | OpenRouter | `nvidia/nemotron-3-nano-30b-a3b:free` | Cross-validation - verifies accuracy |

### Why Two Different LLM Providers?

Using models from different providers (OpenAI vs Nemotron via OpenRouter) ensures genuine validation. Same-provider models share training biases, which would defeat the fact-checking purpose.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.10+
- API keys for NewsAPI, OpenAI, and OpenRouter

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Lnxtanx/News-Analysis-with-Dual-LLM-Validation-.git
cd News-Analysis-with-Dual-LLM-Validation-

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows
# source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Configuration

Create a `.env` file with your API keys:

```env
NEWSAPI_KEY=your_newsapi_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
OPENROUTER_API_KEY=your_openrouter_api_key
```

**Get your API keys from:**
- NewsAPI: https://newsapi.org/
- OpenAI: https://platform.openai.com/api-keys
- OpenRouter: https://openrouter.ai/keys

### Run the Application

**Option 1: Streamlit Chat UI (Recommended)**
```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

Opens at `http://localhost:8501` with an interactive chat interface.

**Option 2: Flask API**
```bash
python main.py
```

The API server starts at `http://localhost:5000`

## 📡 API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/` | Status page |
| POST | `/analyze` | Run full analysis pipeline |
| GET | `/report` | Get latest Markdown report |
| GET | `/results` | Get latest JSON results |

## 🧪 Running Tests

```bash
python -m pytest tests/ -v
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
news-analyzer/
├── app.py               # Streamlit Chat UI (recommended)
├── main.py              # Flask API
├── llm_analyzer.py      # LLM#1: OpenAI analysis module
├── llm_validator.py     # LLM#2: OpenRouter/Nemotron validation
├── news_fetcher.py      # NewsAPI integration
├── requirements.txt     # Dependencies
├── .env                 # API keys (not in repo)
├── .gitignore
├── DEVELOPMENT_PROCESS.md  # Development thinking & AI prompts
├── output/              # Generated reports
└── tests/
    └── test_analyzer.py  # 7 meaningful test cases
```

## 🔄 Pipeline Workflow

```
┌─────────────┐     ┌──────────────────┐     ┌────────────────────┐     ┌──────────────┐
│  NewsAPI    │────▶│  OpenAI (LLM#1)  │────▶│ OpenRouter (LLM#2) │────▶│  Reports     │
│  Fetch      │     │  Analyze:        │     │  Validate:         │     │  JSON + MD   │
│  articles   │     │  gist/sentiment  │     │  accuracy check    │     │              │
└─────────────┘     └──────────────────┘     └────────────────────┘     └──────────────┘
```

## ⚠️ Error Handling

- **API Timeouts**: Exponential backoff with 3 retries
- **Empty Articles**: Gracefully skipped with error logging
- **Invalid JSON**: Markdown code block cleanup
- **Rate Limits**: 1-second delay between API calls

## 📝 License

MIT License

---

Made with ❤️ by [Vivek](https://cv.vivekmind.com)

Commit message:

Enhance UI: Fix chat input pos, update README with assignment details

README.md, after:

# 📰 News Analyzer with Dual LLM Validation

> **Celltron Intelligence - AI Engineer Assignment**  
> ⏱️ **Built in 3 hours**  
> 🚀 **Deployed on:** [Streamlit Cloud](https://streamlit.io/cloud)

A news analysis pipeline that uses **OpenAI GPT-4o-mini** for primary analysis and **OpenRouter Nemotron** for cross-validation. Features a ChatGPT-style Streamlit UI with clickable articles.

---

## 👤 Author

**Vivek**  
🌐 Portfolio: [cv.vivekmind.com](https://cv.vivekmind.com)  
📂 GitHub: [github.com/Lnxtanx](https://github.com/Lnxtanx)

---

## ✨ Features

- **Dual LLM Pipeline**: OpenAI analyzes → OpenRouter/Nemotron validates
- **ChatGPT-Style UI**: Modern dark theme with interactive chat
- **Clickable Articles**: View source articles in new tab
- **Sentiment Analysis**: Positive/Negative/Neutral classification
- **Cross-validation**: Second LLM catches incorrect analysis
- **Rich Reports**: JSON + Markdown output formats

## 🔧 LLM Architecture

| Role | Provider | Model | Purpose |
|------|----------|-------|---------|
| **LLM#1 (Analyzer)** | OpenAI | `gpt-4o-mini` | Primary analysis - extracts gist, sentiment, tone |
| **LLM#2 (Validator)** | OpenRouter | `nvidia/nemotron-3-nano-30b-a3b:free` | Cross-validation - verifies accuracy |

### Why Two Different LLM Providers?

Using models from different providers (OpenAI vs Nemotron via OpenRouter) ensures genuine validation. Same-provider models share training biases, which would defeat the fact-checking purpose.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.10+
- API keys for NewsAPI, OpenAI, and OpenRouter

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Lnxtanx/News-Analysis-with-Dual-LLM-Validation-.git
cd News-Analysis-with-Dual-LLM-Validation-

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows
# source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Configuration

Create a `.env` file with your API keys:

```env
NEWSAPI_KEY=your_newsapi_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
OPENROUTER_API_KEY=your_openrouter_api_key
```

**Get your API keys from:**
- NewsAPI: https://newsapi.org/
- OpenAI: https://platform.openai.com/api-keys
- OpenRouter: https://openrouter.ai/keys

### Run the Application

**Option 1: Streamlit Chat UI (Recommended)**
```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

Opens at `http://localhost:8501` with an interactive chat interface.

**Option 2: Flask API**
```bash
python main.py
```

The API server starts at `http://localhost:5000`

## 📡 API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| GET | `/` | Status page |
| POST | `/analyze` | Run full analysis pipeline |
| GET | `/report` | Get latest Markdown report |
| GET | `/results` | Get latest JSON results |

## 🧪 Running Tests

```bash
python -m pytest tests/ -v
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
news-analyzer/
├── app.py               # Streamlit Chat UI (recommended)
├── main.py              # Flask API
├── llm_analyzer.py      # LLM#1: OpenAI analysis module
├── llm_validator.py     # LLM#2: OpenRouter/Nemotron validation
├── news_fetcher.py      # NewsAPI integration
├── requirements.txt     # Dependencies
├── .env                 # API keys (not in repo)
├── .gitignore
├── DEVELOPMENT_PROCESS.md  # Development thinking & AI prompts
├── output/              # Generated reports
└── tests/
    └── test_analyzer.py  # 7 meaningful test cases
```

## 🔄 Pipeline Workflow

```
┌─────────────┐     ┌──────────────────┐     ┌────────────────────┐     ┌──────────────┐
│  NewsAPI    │────▶│  OpenAI (LLM#1)  │────▶│ OpenRouter (LLM#2) │────▶│  Reports     │
│  Fetch      │     │  Analyze:        │     │  Validate:         │     │  JSON + MD   │
│  articles   │     │  gist/sentiment  │     │  accuracy check    │     │              │
└─────────────┘     └──────────────────┘     └────────────────────┘     └──────────────┘
```

## ⚠️ Error Handling

- **API Timeouts**: Exponential backoff with 3 retries
- **Empty Articles**: Gracefully skipped with error logging
- **Invalid JSON**: Markdown code block cleanup
- **Rate Limits**: 1-second delay between API calls

## 📝 License

MIT License

---

Made with ❤️ by [Vivek](https://cv.vivekmind.com)
